Friends here we're implementing a simple shell script just to
install multiple packages like VIM, HTTPD engine X.
And we are implementing this shell script with the help of for loop.
Let me implement with step-by-step.
See whenever if you want to install any package,
you should be the root user or you were current users should have root religious.
Now, let me move into root and I'm moving into OPT.
Now here I'm implementing a shell script.
Let me take shell script name as install multiple packages dot SH.
Let me write the very first line as our shebang line.
Then I'm writing some author name.
What is the purpose of the shell script?
Installing multiple packages, but all the name you want,
you can do that comment here.
That's fine.
Suppose let me try to install yum install via young hyphen white.
So why we are using year Ivan way means
if you don't you Ivan way while running your shell script,
which will ask yes or no confirmation.
By default, I'm giving hyphen white.
That's fine.
Now, let me provide the execution permissions for this.
Now I am running from root.
Yes.
So actually we already installed that VIM package,
but we'll take it out that as of no,
you're able to run the shell script.
Now let me exit from this route.
And let me navigate from automation user,
let me navigate to OPT.
Now I'm trying to run.
See the result.
You are getting.
Permission.
You don't now permissions, you should be the root user to run this command.
So actually we are using yum command to run your m command.
You should be the root user or you should run from.
You should run with root privileges, sudo privileges.
Thus, the reason inside of your shells can be hard to take care.
If you are not the root user,
you have to say, please run this from root.
So if you remember somewhere we have taken care. What is that?
If I'm testing ID of user,
if it is not equal to 0 means you are not the root user,
then only I want to say some error, then echo.
Please run from root user are width,
pseudo privilege, anything is fine.
That's it.
Now let me save it. Again. Let me exit from root.
Now I'm running our shell scripts with automation user.
Now see the output you are getting.
Please run from root user or with sudo privileges.
That's fine.
Then unnecessarily are getting this line or if you are not the root user,
you should not run your command.
If you are not the root user,
you have to display these measures and then you had to stop it.
But you don't have any logic to stop as of no.
That way after completion of your reef condition, you are shelled.
It'll try to execute this command.
So if you are not the root user, we should not run these.
That's the way, that's the reason we are taking here.
Abort that. So if you are not the root user after executing these information,
you have to stop your shell script.
That's why.
So what you have to do is let me move into root,
because from root we calculated that shell script.
Now immediately after this command,
the harder right exit.
Generally exit will do exit status as 0.
But if you are not the root user,
I don't want to exit status at 0 existed as gentlemen success.
But eventually if you get this measure that is not a success.
Let me show you that. So once again,
I'm running our shell script form,
our automation user. Now it's working fine.
Please run from root user or with sudo privileges.
Suppose if I run with sudo privileges,
they will work pseudo it talking.
But if I'm not running with sudo privileges,
your script is running.
And after running your script R command,
we know how to check the status you're getting 0.
Gentlemen, success, but this is not success rate.
You use top row skip forcefully by using exit command, that means failed.
By default, exit command is giving exit status as G20,
but I don't want to get 0 whenever if I stop my script.
That's why you see that you can pass some exit code in general getting geno.
So I'm giving someone.
So after running my shell script,
if I see exit status has won the meaning for the days we are stopping
the script because you are not the root user or
you are not running with sudo privileges. I can understand that.
Meaning if I see this one,
see, let me exit from Rhode.
Now I'm running or shell script.
Now offer that if I see exit status one.
Now edit record one means I can understand for my shell scape,
I am giving a Git status as 11 means you are not running with the rude, that's it.
That's fine. Now, see,
if you are packages already installed,
then why should we run this?
I don't want to run it. Right? So that's
why what I'm doing is I'm writing one more if condition.
If, which we, I am.
So if already VM in-store,
let me show you this on your common law enforced, which we're young.
If it is already installed, you are getting some path.
Suppose I'm checking for some random package,
see the exit status that the package is not installed affair getting an error,
exit status is one means fail.
So using this concept,
I'm implementing simple if condition if which we're young.
If Vm is there,
then all that command will get success.
Anyway, I don't want display output.
Our error from this command does by simply I'm using dough null.
Then, then if it is already success,
then I don't want to install simply.
I want to say here a coal already VM is installed.
Let's say if you are,
which we aim is fail means young VM command is not installed, then I'm installing.
So before installing, just I want to say some message like a core installing.
We I am.
That's it. If I now be clear.
Now you are having this as the first lender, the shebang line.
These two are comments, they won't execute.
Now there's the first if condition.
If you are running from the root,
this value is 00 nautical 0 falls,
it will get fail means if doesn't allow to Xcode this block,
that means it will skip the notice that next line,
if which we I am,
if I am is there,
then this will get success.
If it is success than you are if will execute this block.
I mean, that Whatever Dakota courts are there,
lines are there between then and else those lands will execute.
That means it will skip this part.
If we aim is not installed,
then it will get failed.
If it is failed, it will exclude LSA Bloch.
That's now let me run and see the result.
Bam already installed.
Let me remove it manually.
Young, remove VIM, hyphen way confirmation. It has been removed.
Now I'm running or shell script C that isn't installing via Yum.
That's it.
Now while installing, I don't want to split this log.
Actually these luggage, yum install VIM hyphen wait, command output.
I don't want displayed these if you want no bomb,
but I don't want display that,
then you know how to hide that.
Simply. No, null, not trick.
But sometimes while installing your package,
if that package is not available,
then this will get failed.
If it is such as no problem it is if it is failed,
then you have to say some information.
Now, I am clubbing with logical or, you know,
whenever if you club two commands with a logical order,
you first command is fail,
then only this will execute.
Else it won't execute.
Otherwise.
I'm taking in this way, if,
if you remember, what is the Dollar Question, one value here.
Whatever the previous command you are executing these,
the command, this command status, dollar question mark.
If that is equals to 0,
then you can say that c.
Then here I am saying that equal successfully installed VIM package metric.
Sometimes if that package is not available, then you will get fame.
So echo unable to install VIM package.
So I am taking care if it is not installing close with their fight, that's it.
So I guess if you observe here,
this is firstly if condition
If an else inside of LC blog,
I'm 1 second I'm writing if and else.
Yes, you can write it based on your requirement.
I showed these two lines are a sufficient if it is perfect.
Sometimes while installing it may get fail because if the packet is not available.
So that's the reason for this command status in nothing but Delegation model.
If that is 0 success,
if it is not equal 0 fail.
That's now, let me save it.
First, let me remove VIM once again.
Now I am running or shell script C that isn't installing
via yum successfully installed VIM package that check.
Now my requirement is I want to install multiple packages like VIM, HTTPD in Unix.
Suppose that means same logic,
whatever you implemented for VM,
that logic you have to repeat two more times by taking
one time HTTPD and for one more time in Unix.
But instead of that,
we have for loops.
By using for loop, you can repeat this logic three times.
For three packages.
That's the reason here.
I am using for loop.
See that first I will implement in this way so that you can understand.
First I will come in the below code.
Now, I am taking four loop here.
For each package.
See these, each bag is a variable, right?
You can take, I mean,
in for-loop here it can take any variable based on situation.
You can sell it any variable as of now,
I'm installing packages that I'm taking each package
in in sequence I will take here tribeca is we am HTTPD in Unix,
Nazi, then do and done.
So as of now simply I am writing a co current packages for to understand your loop.
I'm giving this syntax.
I'm in my, I am displaying that.
We'll modify it.
Just wait and run the script and see the result.
So your for loop is able to take one-by-one package.
But whatever the package you are taking one by one with the help of for loop that is
storing in a variable called each package that is only you are displaying.
Now what I will lose in place of this line between do and done.
I will let this entire logic just by replacing V I am with the help of a dollar h by k,
so that if it is working with
first-time automatically each package will replace with VIM.
Second time, actually booted our timing units.
So that is the logic to use here for our concept.
Now simply, let me open the escape. I am removing this.
Simply.
I'm pasting our code here.
And whenever if you are writing some core between Dewan done inside of your loop,
it's better to provide some spaces.
See how MR. Ageing.
So initially you may not get idea to whether to use loops or not.
But if you implement for one package,
then you will see later that same code you are
repeating again and again immediately for three packages.
Then why should we repeat same logic again and again immediately?
Then we have a loops concept.
By using that, we can repeat the same logic for any number of times.
But here we need three number of times anyway,
we know the names for three packages that y simply I'm
mentioning three packages so that this logic will repeat three times.
But as of now,
you are writing for VIM.
But automatically it has to replace with the VA and HUD PD and in Unix.
And that's the reason I'm taking this variable because in your for loop,
while executing first-time, each packet is VIM,
second-time hetero debited part-time Unix,
so that you can replace your packages here.
Dollar H package.
So now wherever V a m is there,
just that replaced with a dollar each,
dollar, each dollar each package.
Even in node m come and also you can replace your package with variable.
Each package successfully installed each package.
Seed dynamically, you are able to place
your package name with the help of each package variable,
which is the variable for our for loop.
So once again, I am repeating this entire core will
exclude three times because providing gear three values,
three package names while executing first-time,
this variable value will be VIM,
so that in entire logic,
each package will be replaced with VIM while executing second-time,
each package name is HUD beauty,
so that while executing second timer for second iteration,
you are variable will be replaced with HUD.
Pretty likewise, it will work for in unix as well.
That's it.
Now let me save it.
As of now if you observe,
we aim is that actually believes that in Unix is not there.
Now let me run the Michelle's coupon c. That isn't already VM is they're
actually buddies there now in selling the next
successfully installing an expectation, that's it.
Let me remove them.
All.
Removed. Vim hyphen white.
Sorry, removed.
Now let me remove HTTP, Lasswell, space.
Remove Indian accessible.
That's it.
Now as of no, you don't have any packages.
I mean, what other bag is UV mentioned inside of a script?
Now if I run installing BAM, once it is done,
installing heterogeneity, successfully done installing in Unix, successfully done.
You will actually be package also.
But here if you observe inside of your shell script,
we are mentioning three packages names.
But in future, suppose if you want to work with some other package also.
So what I want install five packages.
Then.
Instead of fixing these values,
I will pass them with command line arguments.
From command-line arguments are,
I can mention them in a file.
You can provide in different ways.
Now first thing what I will lose while running our shell script,
I will pass in this way via young HTTPD in Unix.
Or if I want to install Jenkins,
if I want to install Tomcat in this value, we pass.
But you need to know how to handle these command line arguments using for loop.
Let me write that one extra script.
Handle. Command line arguments with the for loop.
Very simple. If you remember, somewhere,
we have seen how to get all command-line arguments are datetime.
There is a variable called dollar at the rate and dollar star.
But please go with the dollar grid.
We will see the difference in next session.
Now see, I am using simply for each in dollar at the rate.
Do then between this,
simply I am writing echo dollar each.
Let me provide execution permissions for this,
and I am running, as of now.
I'm not passing any command line arguments that fight.
There is no output because your for loop will repeat.
If there is at least one value in place of list of values.
If you don't pass anything,
duller dot it is nothing but null.
Nothing.
If it is nothing, it won't repeat.
Even it won't execute at least one time also.
Now I'm passing, suppose only VIM package and you'll see that it is repeating.
Woman.
Sorry, given hash.
That's my mistake guys. And just give me a minute.
And that is dollar hash.
Now let me run from first,
I'm not passing anything. There is no output.
Now I'm passing VIM package or one package I'm passing,
that's where he's repeating for onetime, two packages.
So now you can able to pass any number of packages
here so that your script will work on that by using for loop.
Now, this concept I will use in the one script.
Let me take a backup for this.
Now let me open our shell script.
Now I want to work.
The shells can width the number of command line arguments.
In case if you are not passing any command line arguments,
then I want to, I want to display the uses of that.
See, anyway, whenever if you are using the shells,
could at least you have to pass one command line argument, one package.
But if you are not passing any command line argument,
then there is no use to run.
Otherwise, you may know,
you may don't know how to run the shell script.
That's why I'm giving help to you.
I mean, for third person,
if you don't, dollar hash means number of command line arguments.
If that is equals to 0,
means you are not passing any command line arguments
are you don't know how to do conditional skip.
Then I'm displaying the usage.
Usage.
That is shell script name,
then package one by K2.
Likewise, you can pass any number of packages.
That is the help I am giving, right?
And if you are not passing any command line arguments,
then no need to run the shell script.
If you're not passing at least one command line arguments,
then there is no use to run remaining script.
That's why I want to stop here itself.
Now, I will stop with exit,
but I don't want exit with the default status of your exit command that is 0.
I'm displaying this because you don't know how to run that mean something.
Yes, I wanted display with one.
Any value use previously we use exit one now I'll make it as a
two so that I will come to know after running my transcript.
If I see exit status as one,
then oh, I'm getting arrow something from here.
If I see exit status as two,
then I can come to know that this is the place from where I'm getting another case.
If you are getting a confusion about existed as course,
don't worry, just forget them.
Just simply read exit.
We have a lot of exercises so that you will be good with that.
Now let me exit from our shell script.
No, I'm running installing multiple baggage dot SH.
See that?
Then I can see existed as one.
That means some with some error you have been excluded or shell script.
Now I'm passing, I'm passing at least one package.
Please run from root user nozzle exit status to we know that
where we place it to where we had this message there, we place it.
So either from this message or from this error,
we can conclude that if I get one,
then the meaningful that is,
I'm not passing any command line arguments.
If I get to the meaning for that is
I am not running dish telescope from root or with sudo privileges.
So actually this error, of course,
are very helpful whenever if you are
integrating the shell script with some other scripts.
Based on this Xist status,
you can decide whether you need to run next to script or not.
Okay, fine. We'll see that type of flow situations.
But as of now, try to understand why I am giving.
I mean, other courts has 123.
Now let me move into road.
So now let me run our Shellsort bypassing VIM or let's say HTTPD or let's say jenkins.
Oh, what happened?
Which is scripted.
We modified.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, we've done modification,
but here we forgot to replace these values with a dollar at the rate of the rate.
So that how many command line arguments you are passing,
all command-line arguments will place here.
So now your for loop will take one by one from this.
See your core. Now I'm running that by passing with the spaces.
We am HTTPD Jenkins. Engineer.
How many packet prom cat,
whatever the pack is you want to install Now you can install it in the shell script C
that installing Jenkins satisfied
in soldier and Ginsberg age already in Unix is installed non-insulin Tomcat,
There is also installed successfully.
That's it. Ok.
So guys, this is the simple way to use our for
loop to repeat your logic for n number of times.
Okay?
Okay, thank you.